---
title: "Evaluation of the approach (APIzator)"
---

This section contains all the data we used to evaluate our approach called *APIzator*.

We collected a large sample of *StackOverflow* posts regarding questions on *Java* and run our tool *APIzator* to automatically generate *APIzations*.
<!-- These complete examples are browsable in our tool. -->
We asked human participants to apply the *APIzation* on a subset of the extracted snippets, to constitute the oracle for our study.
In our evaluation study, we compare the automatic generated *APIzations* to those of the oracle.

[so_questions.json.xz.part.000]: /data/evaluation/so_questions.json.xz.part.000
[so_questions.json.xz.part.001]: /data/evaluation/so_questions.json.xz.part.001
[so_questions.json.xz.part.002]: /data/evaluation/so_questions.json.xz.part.002
[so_questions.json.xz.part.003]: /data/evaluation/so_questions.json.xz.part.003
[so_answers.json.xz.part.000]: /data/evaluation/so_answers.json.xz.part.000
[so_answers.json.xz.part.001]: /data/evaluation/so_answers.json.xz.part.001
[so_answers.json.xz.part.002]: /data/evaluation/so_answers.json.xz.part.002
[so_answers.json.xz.part.003]: /data/evaluation/so_answers.json.xz.part.003

## Process

The following table shows the steps of our processing method to collect the data for the study.

Step | Description | Questions | Answers | Snippets | APIzator-APIs | Human-APIs | Data
---: | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
[1](#1) | *StackOverflow* archive | – | – | – | – | – | –
[2](#2) | Filter suitable content | `1,452,931` | `891,889` | – | – | – | [`so_questions.json.xz.part.000`][so_questions.json.xz.part.000] <br /> [`so_questions.json.xz.part.001`][so_questions.json.xz.part.001] <br /> [`so_questions.json.xz.part.002`][so_questions.json.xz.part.002] <br /> [`so_questions.json.xz.part.003`][so_questions.json.xz.part.003] <br /> [`so_answers.json.xz.part.000`][so_answers.json.xz.part.000] <br /> [`so_answers.json.xz.part.001`][so_answers.json.xz.part.001] <br /> [`so_answers.json.xz.part.002`][so_answers.json.xz.part.002] <br /> [`so_answers.json.xz.part.003`][so_answers.json.xz.part.003]
[3](#3) | *APIzator* processing | – | – | x `12,689` | x `12,689` | – | [`apizator_apis.tar.xz`][apizator_apis.tar.xz]
[4](#4) | Well-formed method declaration snippets removal | – | – | x `10,890` | x `10,890` | – | x
[5](#5) | Rank most viewed snippets | – | – | `170` | `170` | – | [`human_evaluation_snippets.tar.xz`][human_evaluation_snippets.tar.xz]
[6](#6) | Human *APIzation* | – | – | `130` | `130` | `130` | [`human_apis.tar.xz`][human_apis.tar.xz]

### 1. *StackOverflow* archive {#1}

We start from the *StackOverflow* archive on [The Internet Archive](https://archive.org/details/stackexchange) with the dump of `May, 2019`.

### 2. Filter suitable content {#2}

Starting from the large dump of *StackOverflow*, we filtered and extracted only questions tagged with *Java*.
We produced the files:

* [`so_questions.json.xz.part.000`][so_questions.json.xz.part.000]
* [`so_questions.json.xz.part.001`][so_questions.json.xz.part.001]
* [`so_questions.json.xz.part.002`][so_questions.json.xz.part.002]
* [`so_questions.json.xz.part.003`][so_questions.json.xz.part.003]

The archive `so_questions.json.xz` file was split into multiple chunks.
You can obtain a single file with the command:

```bash
cat so_questions.json.xz.part.* > so_questions.json.xz
```

We also extracted the answers.
We produced the files:

* [`so_answers.json.xz.part.000`][so_answers.json.xz.part.000]
* [`so_answers.json.xz.part.001`][so_answers.json.xz.part.001]
* [`so_answers.json.xz.part.002`][so_answers.json.xz.part.002]
* [`so_answers.json.xz.part.003`][so_answers.json.xz.part.003]

### 3. *APIzator* processing {#3}

We ran *APIzator* on the *Java* snippets from *StackOverflow*.
This also includes *CSnippEx*, to make the snippets compilable and other passages that could have reduced the list of valid snippets.
The produced *Java* source files are available in the [`apizator_apis.tar.xz`][apizator_apis.tar.xz] file.
Every produced API also includes a method name we generated by a *POS* *NPL* technique.

### 4. Well-formed method declaration snippets removal {#4}

To prepare the data for the human evaluation part, we removed those snippets already presenting a well-formed method declaration, therefore not suitable for the study.
Also, we excluded those snippets that *CSnippEx* identified as associated to third-party libraries, since they could require specific knowledge that human participants might not have.

### 5. Rank most viewed snippets {#5}

### 6. Human *APIzation* {#6}


1. We removed those snippets already presenting a well-formed method declaration, therefore not suitable for the study.


Also third party libraries since the developers could not know....

5. We ranked the snippets based on the number of views on StackOverflow.
We selected the top ones to be sent to `17` human participants.

10 a testa.

6. `13` out of `17` human participants performed the APIzation.
Thus, they produced a total of `130` method declarations.
